Skin Care For Your Sunny Vacation

With summer on the horizon, people all over are gearing up for a fun time in this warm and sunny season. Whether it is going to the beach or an amusement park, there is fun to be had. But a vacation of fun in this sun can quickly take a turn towards misery city if you are not careful.

The single most common problem people face is the ever dreadful sunburn. They do not apply enough sunscreen, or do not reapply it, and suddenly they have to spend the rest of their vacation gingerly walking around, with every little touch causing agonizing pain. Nobody wants to deal with this, so to make sure you are protected here are some tips for Skin care for your sunny vacation.

1: Eat fruits and vegetables. While sunscreen is obviously your first choice, there are some other things you can do to protect your skin which are not quite as obvious. Eating colorful fruits like blueberries and strawberries, as well as leafy green vegetables like broccoli can go a long way to keeping you protected. 

A lot of these fruits and veggies contain antioxidants which can protect your skin from damaging UV rays. As well, they can contain enzymes which will protect you from cancer, skin cancer included.

2: Eat some fish. Another way you can dine your way to protection is to simply eat some fish. Various fish can contain omega 3 fat, which is a good type of fat that you actually want in your diet. This fat, like the antioxidants of the fruit and veggies, can protect your skin from UV rays as well as help the inflammation caused by getting sunburn. Certainly something you should consider when thinking about Skin care for your sunny vacation.

3: Drink green tea. There are several types of tea out there, but green tea is the one that offers the most beneficial components and can help protect you from the suns harmful rays. Instead of having a pop or something, have a glass of green tea instead. It tastes pretty good in it's own right, and it will help keep you safe when having fun outdoors.

4: Drink plenty of water. While not really a skincare tip, it is something that should always be addressed when working or playing outside in the hot sun. Getting dehydrated is simply unpleasant and can leave you filling sick, and it can even be quite serious or even deadly. If you are out in the sun and sweating a lot, make sure to drink a lot of water and keep your body hydrated.

Implementing this tips for Skin care for your sunny vacation can be exceptionally easy. A fish for your main course with a fruit salad for desert and a glass of green tea. Your dinner can help protect you from the sun. When you combine these beneficial foods to the proper use of sunscreen then you should have absolutely no problems on your vacation and you will not have to worry about getting a nasty sunburn.