Spring Time And Flowers For Fragrence and Color

One of the great beauties after a long, cold winter are flowers in spring.  The beauty of flowers doesn't just start and end with what you can see, the vibrant colors, it can also be traced to the smell. Adding bouquets of flowers to your home can add color and fragrance, just what we need first thing in the spring. 

Most of us think of flowers solely as some indulgence for a special occasion or to wish someone well when they are having a big day, or a bad day. But the truth is that flowers can not only add beauty to your home and property, great landscaping can even add value to your home. 

Many types of flowers in spring bloom from bulbs. Often, these bulbs are actually planted in the fall. If you are thinking about sprucing up your yard for next spring, here are some early spring bloomers to give you a place to start:

1. Tulips are probably one of the best known of the spring flowers. They come in  many colors and sizes and they are one of the early bloomers in the spring. You can easily make a whole flower garden just focusing on the various colors and heights of tulips. Seeing the beautiful colors first thing in the spring can do a lot to brighten an decor, landscape or mood. 

2. Daffodils are also a very popular early spring flower. They come in over 200 varieties and are bulbs that are planted in the fall.  Two of the most popular colors are yellow and white, you have probably seen these flowers often in the spring but maybe just didn't know what they were. 

These flowers will continue to bloom for up to six weeks. These flowers are easy for beginners to grow. The one tip you need to remember is to not plant them near evergreens since the evergreen will leach a lot of the nutrients from the soil making it harder for the Daffodils to grow. 

3. Irises will bloom anytime between April and June. They come in multiple heights and colors so you can add several varieties to your border for a beautiful look with multiple colors. They don't require any special soil or a lot of maintenance so they are a great flower for the new gardener. Just make sure the soil is well drained, that's all you need to really worry about. 

With any of these flowers, you can cut them and make gorgeous bouquets for your home all season long. Adding one or more of these flowers to your borders and to your home can add a lot of color and beauty, and who wouldn't want that?

Flowers in spring are a great way to welcome the new season and shake of the blues and the blahs of the long cold winter. Anyone who lives in a colder climate always looks forward to some beauty and heat. While flowers may not really provide a lot of heat, they sure can provide color. It also can life the spirits of all of us winter weary people.