20 Simple Ways To
Reset Your Mind For
An Empowered Life


Tip #1
Burn painful memories

Many of us are still hanging on to old and painful memories. You can overcome this by ritualistically destroying reminders of bad times.

 


Tip #2

Have a going away party

In a similar manner, throwing yourself a “going away party” is a great way to say goodbye to the “old you.”














Tip #3
Change your environment

Pattern thinking and bad habits are tied to our environments. While you might not be able to move away, simply redecorating can even have a big impact!








Tip #4

Identify your goals

Know what you want from life and you’ll be able to find the most damaging limiting beliefs.













Tip #5
Use the five-fold why

Don’t know how to find what you want in life? Try the “five fold why.” Ask what you want, and then ask “why” five times. This helps you to get to the bottom of what you really want!













Tip #6
Try mindfulness to identify limiting beliefs

Mindfulness is a technique that involves watching the contents of your own thoughts without judgement or feeling. This can help you learn what your limiting beliefs are, such that you can change them!












Tip #7

Use thought challenging

If you have a negative belief, try asking yourself how realistic it really is. Prove you don’t need to think that way!















Tip #8

  Use hypothesis testing

Hypothesis testing means going out and actually proving that the thought is not accurate!








Tip #9
Create new associations

Create more positive memories, habits, and beliefs to replace the old ones. 



.




Tip #10
Forgive yourself

Letting go of painful memories also means learning to forgive yourself with self compassion.










Tip #11

Stay away from negative people

Some people are toxic and bring negativity into your life – learn to avoid them.











Tip #12
 
Use post-its with positive affirmations

This is a great way to remind yourself to think more positively as you go about your routine and home.













Tip #13
 
Try fear setting

This is an exercise from Tim Ferris that involves writing down your fears and then demonstrating to yourself why they are invalid.










Tip #14

Write down things you are grateful for

This shifts your focus and makes you more grateful (and thus happy) as your “default” emotion!









 	




Tip #15

Ask what advice you’d give to someone else

If you’re not sure what to do, ask what advice you would give someone in your same situation!













Tip #16

Dress for the life you want

Not just the job you want! The law of attraction can do the rest.













Tip #17

Smile more

This has powerful impacts on your own mood, as well as that of others!











Tip #18

Adopt confident body language

The same goes for body language which can change the way others see you and even stimulate the release of more testosterone and other powerful hormones.














Tip #19

Practice meditation

Meditation gives you the focused calm to rise above your troubles.












Tip #20

Recognize the power of thoughts and beliefs

Finally, just know the importance of your thoughts and beliefs. These shape your behavior and the energy you put out, which has a way of shaping your entire life!












