The Importance of Personal Time Management

Are you an individual who knows how to make good use of your time?  If you are not, you may want to learn ways to make improvements.  This is because time management can have a negative impact on your personal life.  Unfortunately, many individuals only believe that poor time management hurts those in the workplace, but this isn’t the case.  In fact, there are a number of ways that your personal life can suffer from poor time management.

If you do not know how to manage your time, there is a good chance that you will be stressed out.  You may also feel a wide range of other emotions, including anger, frustration, and fear.  With that said, if you know how to properly manage time you are more likely to live a happy, healthy, productive, and stress free life.

Although we often associate poor time management with missed deadlines and showing up late to work, it is important to remember that the same can be said with your social life.  Do you have friends?  How much do you stay in contact with them?  How often do you get together for coffee or lunch?  If you do, do you show up for your meetings with friends late or do you forget to make regular contact with them?  If you do, you may end up putting your friendships at risk.

In addition to having a negative impact on your friendships, poor time management may also have an impact on your relationship.  To have a healthy and happy relationship, time management is important. You need to know how much time you should devote to your spouse, as opposed to spending it working, watching television, or hanging out with friends.  Time management is also important as you want to make sure that you arrive home or at dates on time.

If you are a parent, having poor time management may also impact the relationship that you have with your children.  When you are a parent, you have responsibilities to your children.  The most common of these responsibilities is to feed and clothe your children.  Depending on their ages, you may also be reasonable for getting them ready and sent off to school or daycare.  If you do not have proper sense of time or if you do just choose not to use your time wisely, you can end up hurting your children, like by making them late to school or other important events.  All individuals are encouraged to have good sense of time, but it is vital for parents.

In keeping with being a parent, if you are a parent, poor use of your time also sets bad examples for your children.  Whether your children are teenagers, toddlers, or elementary school aged, they will likely make note of your behaviors.  If you want your children to get good grades at school and later get good jobs, it is important that you teach them all about time management and its importance.  One of the best ways to do so is by setting a good example for your children.  The good news is that this is a lot easier than it sounds.  You can set a good example for your children by getting ready for work in the morning on time or by arriving at scheduled events on time.

Another one of the many ways that having a poor sense of time management can hurt you is with your credit.  Those who have poor time management also often have poor credit.  This is because those who are unable to properly manage their time often pay their bills late.  With credit cards, this can result in expensive minimum payments that just cannot be paid.  By knowing when all of your bills are due, you are likely to have better credit, but time management is important.

As you can see, there are a number of ways that poor time management can negatively impact your personal life.  For that reason, take steps to make sure it doesn’t impact yours.

PPPPP

Word Cont 670
