Time Management and Parents

Are you a parent?  If you are, do you know how to manage your time properly?  If not, you will want to make changes right away.  All individuals can benefit from being able to properly manage their time, but parents can often benefit the most.  With that said, parents also stand to lose the most.

As nice as it is to hear that all parents should have a proper sense of time and know how to properly manage it, you may be curious as to why that is so.  After all, if you are poor with time management, you may not think that the situation warrants any changes or improvements, but it does and it should.

Parents who have a proper sense of time management end up setting good examples for their children.  Whether your child is a toddler or a teenager, it is important to know that they do pay close attention to your actions.  In fact, many children end up copying their parents.  In these instances, you want your child to know that their time should be managed properly, as opposed to taken for granted or wasted.

In keeping with setting a good example for your children, parents who have a good understanding of time management and its importance are better able to educate their children on the subject.  Whether your child is a teenager or a toddler, they can benefit immensely from knowing the importance of proper time management.  Since it is your reasonability, as the parent, to educate your children, you will want to do so.  Remember, be sure to set a good example for your kids.

Parents who have a good sense of time management are also likely to have children with better grades.  Although the effort that your children put forth in school will impact their grades, your role as their parent may also have an impact as well.  This is most often the case during elementary school and junior high school.  Do you help your children with their homework?  Do you remember to help them study for tests?  If not, you may be putting your child’s future at risk, even unintentionally.

In addition to better grades, parents who have a good sense of time management are also likely to have children who participate in school related activities, including sports.  Many children, especially those at the elementary school and the middle school level, feel pride when their parents attend their events.  Do you remember to show up on time?  In fact, did you even remember to get your child signed up for a school sponsered event before the deadline?

Although there are much more important things than having a ton of friends, friendship and social interaction is important to children of all ages.  For parents of toddlers and preschoolers, their friendships will likely depend on your actions.  Do you take time to meet other parents and to schedule play dates?  For those play dates, do you make sure that your child arrives on time?  If not, you may hinder your child’s ability to make long-lasting friendships.

As you can see, your actions as a parent do have significant impacts on your children.  Do not let your poor time management hamper their growth.  If you need assistance, there are a number of resources that you can use to your advantage to help you improve your time management skills and techniques.

PPPPP

Word Count 565
