Healing Meditation Using the Chakras System 


When the body, mind, and spirit are working harmoniously together, the results are awareness, well being, and a balanced thought. In fact, nothing can beat the feeling of being healed on all levels. This can be achieved through healing meditation.

Healing meditation is done to reprogram the negative thoughts that cause diseases or illnesses to become positive desires in achieving wholeness and health. Your perception of the image does not really matter at all. Most people are seeing themselves through the eyes of their minds. Some just imagine the ongoing process happens in all parts of their body. Others may simply accept the fact that whatever they imagine also happens to them in reality. Regardless of whichever category you belong, you participate actively in the process of healing. This is the most important thing you could do. 

Among the easiest forms of healing meditation is the Chakra System. The effects are quite profound. During the healing process, the patient's chakras are the center of importance. Your body has 7 major chakras (Chakra System) and a lot of less-significant minor chakras. They are considered as energy centers, points wherein energy flows, and the body's energy junctions. These are the energetic connections to your spiritual essence and pure consciousness. The chakras energetic operations make every part of your body, emotions, mind, and spirit possible. 

Every single chakra or basic energy center is a distinctive character corresponding to a unique part of your being. These are energy patterns shaped similar to whirlpools or funnels of energy wherein each vortex lie inside your body, along your spinal cord (center of energy channels) going up into your head. Follow these guidelines using the Chakra System. 

1.	Like other posture of meditation, Chakra recommends you to sit in a straight position. Lay your feet flat on the floor with uncrossed legs. Put your hands on your lap exposing your palms. 

2.	Let a sapphire blue or white light surrounds you.  You can also ask the help of meditation guides or other meditation practitioners to assist you during the process. 

3.	The Chakra Center has cabinets containing the Chakra Plates. Every plate has a diameter of six inches similar to a dessert plate's size. 

4.	Starting with the Root Chakra's cabinet, remove the Chakra Plate. Check for any breakage, discoloration or chips. Since it’s the Root Chakra's cabinet, the plate must be a beautiful bright red corresponding with the color of the Chakra. If the plate has no damage, then make it shine better in a clockwise direction before returning it back in the cabinet. 

5.	Repair any cracks if possible but if not then dispose it. Replace it with a brand new Chakra's plate then make it shiny before placing it in the cabinet. Continue the procedure until all the Chakras are finished. This is also the point where you can thank all the people who have assisted you in the cleaning process. Never forget that thanking them is not only showing your good etiquette but also appreciate their goodness and patience with you during the healing meditation process. 

Healing meditation can change your condition. But to obtain successful results, it needs regular practice. So, achieve the true healing using the Chakra System. 
