Day 6

Subject: Obey The Law of Attraction [firstname]!

Hi [firstname],

You may not have heard of it, but there is such a thing as The Law of Attraction, and you can use it to change your life forever.

It can be summed up in a single sentence: What you think about, is what you get.  Think good, positive thoughts and good things will happen.  The converse is also true: Bad, negative thoughts attract misfortune.

The Law of Attraction was first identified by James Allen in his groundbreaking book As a Man Thinketh way back in 1903.  It's since been the subject of many bestselling self-help books (most notably Think and Grow Rich by Napoleon Hill) as well as the Hollywood movie “The Secret”.

To get the best from the law of attraction, recite a mantra.  This is a phrase you repeat over and over to yourself whenever you have a spare moment.  This should be a positive affirmation.

For example, a good one to use in business is: “I am very lucky. Money wealth and good-fortune flow to me in abundance.”

What repeating a mantra does, is drill down into your subconscious mind and help to change your mindset, so your computer is “re-programmed” to get you want you want.

This is an action of your conscious mind, influencing your much more powerful subconscious mind. When you do that, you're harnessing your ENTIRE mind.

Pretty cool, eh?

I end today's installment with a quote from As a Man Thinketh.  Despite the outdated language, it's a true today as it was over a century ago.

“Good thoughts and actions can never produce bad results; bad thoughts and actions can never produce good results … We understand this law in the natural world, and work with it; but few understand it in the mental and moral world—although its operation there is just as simple and undeviating—and they, therefore, do not cooperate with it.”

Warmly,

[Your Name]

PS. One thing your subconscious WILL want is a copy of my guide to resetting your mind.  Grab your copy now from [link to sales page] 
