Tips On How To Use Your Credit Cards



Credit cards are almost a necessity of modern life, but the easy credit that they offer can get many people in trouble. Knowing how to use credit cards responsibly is a key part of your financial education. The tips in this article will help make sure that you do not abuse your credit cards.

Use a credit card that offers rewards. Not every credit card company offers rewards, so you need to choose wisely. Reward points can be earned on every purchase, or for making purchases in certain categories. There are many different rewards including air miles, cash back or merchandise. Be wary though because some of these cards charge a fee.

Do not make purchases with your credit card for things that you can not afford. Credit cards are for things that you purchase regularly or that fit into your budget. Making grandiose purchases with your credit card will make that item cost you a great deal more over time and will put you at risk for default.

Make sure that you pore over your credit card statement each and every month, to make sure that every single charge on your bill has been authorized by you. Many people fail to do this and it is much harder to fight fraudulent charges after a lot of time has passed.

Do not sign up for store cards in order to save money on a purchase. Often times, the amount you will pay for annual fees, interest or other charges, will easily be more than any savings you will get at the register that day. Avoid the trap, by just saying no in the first place.

Be careful to stay away from actions that cause fees on your credit cards! Fees for missed or late payments, for instance, can be as high as $35 or more! This can also lead to your credit card company increasing your interest rate. Know what triggers can cause these fees by reading the fine print on any card you use.

Only spend what you could afford to pay for in cash. The benefit of using a card rather than cash, or a debit card, is that it establishes credit, which you will need to get a loan in the future. By only spending what you can afford to pay for in cash, you will never get into debt that you can't get out of.

Learn about the grace periods that your credit card company has. You may find that there is not any grace period for you to get a payment turned in late. Knowing this can help you avoid the late payment fees that can amount to a very high fee that you likely cannot afford.

An important tip for saving money on gas is to never carry a balance on a gas credit card or when charging gas on another credit card. Plan to pay it off each month, otherwise, you will not only pay today's outrageous gas prices, but interest on the gas, as well.

You should consider getting a credit card with monthly fees, instead of interest rate charges. If you make purchases that will cause your interest rates to exceed standard monthly charges, you should definitely get a card that does not charge interest. Each card is different, so be sure to compare them before you decide.

Having access to credit makes it much easier to manage your finances, but as you have seen, you need to do so with care. It is all too easy to over-extend yourself with your credit cards. Keep the tips you have learned from this article in mind, so that you can be a responsible credit card user.