Consider Spirituality in Developing Self Confidence

Our development is continuous from the moment we were conceived until the last seconds of our stay. 

Nothing comes from nothing. And everything will eventually go to nothing. But unless we have turned into void everything would still be subject to improvement. If we have missed in childhood all the developments we were bound to undergo then adulthood is never too late to give them a shot. All it would take is to gather everything in one heap and toss them all in one try with fingers crossed hoping that all would end well.  

The end is never the end of it all though. Depending on your treatment of things, the end might as well be considered as the beginning. The start of a new trial.

All we need is to take the positive attitude and make ourselves believe that some things are meant to fail on our first trials and then luck would follow us. 

Our route for development is always towards a specific goal. And since nothing comes from nothing, it is unarguable that we were innately confident. We were all entitled to confidence  unless we turn away from this gift, which by the way is the normal reaction of most people who have failed on their initial shot. 

Self confidence roots from our inner drive to excel, to show the world how well a man should treat life and how to manipulate the attributes that one is endowed with.

From our birth comes the weak foundation of our inner self confidence. We are then responsible of intensifying this fortress as we age. Being unable to do so is a form of disregard towards the precious gifts that accompany self confidence.  

If you failed to develop your self confidence as a child then think of it as a loss that you must learn from. Now, all you have to do is to muster all strength so you can start anew. You have a lifetime to change the course of your life, you have been given all the stock you need to get your world moving. Only if you would realize how beautiful your blueprints are then you could appreciate the worth you have.

If being you, as the created manifestation of God's love is not enough for to convince you of how worthy you are, then think only of this- God took time to conceptualize everything that you are now. 

Imagine, the Divine Being gave you the favor of His eternity. Then you, the creature would put all these to waste because you had failures that you cant get over with? Because you had failures that let you see the imperfections you created for yourself? Because your failures caused you to be less confident of your own beauty? Think again. Heap all your memories and let the best times shine and you will see how wonderfully you were created. 

If you do not believe in all these then you might come to realize that for your own sake and happiness, you have to encourage yourself and continue the development that has for long been stunted. 

Developing self confidence is never that hard to do if you truly believe that you can develop. The problem though is that you are creating too many walls against yourself and the development even before you have started your attempts. These walls would not only hamper you to see the other side of yourself but would also cause you not to jump over your present negative domain. 
