Thoughts on Improving Self Confidence

Don't be fooled. Even the most confident people have their insecurities and the most competent are flawed.

Though we may have dreamt of being the perfect persons we see in other people, we have to understand that nothing can be perfect. The things we would want to happen in our lives don't necessarily happen the way we want them to be however tactful our plans were. The very things we want to attain will not pass by us so long as we won't work towards achieving them. It takes effort to make things happen though. 

And the self confident people have acquired their attributes not out of luck. An author once said that the most beautiful people do not just happen. They must know hardship, they must know suffering, they must know defeat, struggle and loss before they truly understand the depth of their worth.

Everyone is built for recognition, for achievement, for fame. The capacity to be confident of oneself was not given by random, it lies in all of us. Like with all other things we are in equal standing with that of the fellow sitting next to us. The difference though lies in our personal treatments of the capabilities that we were endowed with.

Initial development of self confidence roots from our childhood, the fashion by which we were reared, the opportunities that honed us to be the persons that we are and our reactions to the challenges that were given to us.

At a very young age, we already know how it feels to be humiliated or encouraged. At a very young age, we are already capable of giving interpretations with the way things happen to us. If at childhood we failed to react positively due to reasons like lack of or improper guidance, poor models and insufficient knowledge, it is likely that the succeeding phases of our lives will become dependent with how the things went during these ages.

But with age comes maturity. And maturity arises from the experiences we are encountering. Experiences, as we know them, are among the great teachers we have. Failure to take advantage of the experiences we encounter will only send us back to the same circumstances until we are able to spot where we have gone wrong. Therefore, we have no excuse that we were not given the chance to improve with each experience. 

You see, improving self confidence is just a matter of becoming mature. If you will become complacent with the idea of setting back to lack of achievement and recognition then you will fail to comprehend that life is more than mediocre living.

Everyone can improve self confidence regardless of how we were in the past. What only matters is now- the present. If you would take stock of yourself and believe that you have the capacity to be anything and everything you want to be, you are sure to be a step higher towards achieving self confidence. 

There are lots of ways that you may take to help you improve your self confidence. The keys are to have the positive attitude that anybody can do anything and adaptation of the belief that you can be anybody and you can be anything you set your mind to be.

If all else fails, remember the moments when you felt good because you were able to achieve something by feeling good about yourself. That way, you will be encouraged to become a better person you always wanted to be. 
