What To Do When You Need to Boost Your Self Confidence

Small differences make great changes.

It all boils down in a singe idea that would recreate your self image. Remember when you were so confident of having done something then someone commented on how bad things went? Remember when you were struggling to finish your work satisfactorily when someone said you would never make it to promotion? Remember when you set out to run a mile and people scrutinized you for having such goal? Remember all those times. They all rooted from pessimistic commentaries that were of no use but to destroy the positive spirit in you that says " you can".

Self confidence lies near to positive thinking. If you think positively of yourself and take stock of all positive attributes you have while considering the worth of those you lack then you can atleast make yourself believe that you can actually do and can make things happen. 

Positive thinking is not being overly hopeful of something that is unachievable. Central to boosting self confidence and positive thinking is the setting of realistic goals that you can reach for while not delimiting your capacities. 

Normally when we set out to do something we tend to over calculate things and plan to achieve things beyond our present reach. This, we say, would encourage us to work double time. But the point we are missing is that once we fail our expectations and the expectations of the crowd that is watching us, we will be discouraged to try things again.

You see, on our initial tries it is not bad if we would set achievable goals rather than confidence boosting-unrealistic goals that would leave us dismayed.

When you really need to feel good about yourself, remember that self confidence is largely controlled by the hormonal balance in our body. Thus, you can alter your mood by stimulating yourself to do so. Say, if you have this vivid memory of having been able to achieve something or you once had "cheerleaders" who pushed you to achieving greater things, you can surely use them to manipulate your emotions. If not, then remember the moments when you really felt happy about yourself. Controlling the reins of your moods and emotions can contribute to your over all confidence. 

At one point of our lives, we all have been our own critics. Undue criticisms don't only make us vulnerable to negative thoughts, they also affect our over all personal perspectives. 

Have you noticed how we criticize ourselves without even realizing that we cant utter those very things to other people? We are harsher to ourselves than we can imagine. Thus, with every negative input we receive from this critic, we are left upset and unconfident. It is like tearing the walls that we have built for long in exchange for a few unjust remarks that we rarely need.

Avoid using sweeping statements about yourself because these are the very things that would eventually strip you off your good self image. Recreating the comments you give to yourself will have a huge impact on your self confidence.

In the end, destruction comes from within us. Other people may argue that we are affected by external pessimism. True, yet this would only affect us once we allow entry towards ourselves. Thus, you only have to create barriers from negative inputs while strengthening your underlying foundations. 
