Alzheimer and Balance 

When the brain and central nervous system is off balance it causes a series of complications to emerge. Alzheimer’s disease is disorder that affects the intellectual mind, which rests at the frontal lobe of the brain. The disorder progressively causes memory loss, and gradually works into dementia. Alzheimer’s disease kills living cells, which results in the disease dementia. Dementia results subtly. Dementia slyly develops, and gradually robs people of their fresh memories. The limbic system is where fresh memories are stored. Most people with Alzheimer’s will forget immediately after a visitor leaves. 

The limbic system connects to the Central Nervous System and makes up the brain’s nuclei system. The systems intersect to convey critical emotional needs, including pain, hunger, contentment, joy, sex, and inborn incentives. Dementia sets in and slyly affects the limbic system. Dementia causes depression at the beginning in some instances. Depression emerges fear, which is the root of anxiety and suppressed emotions. The personality will alter as well, which means dementia is hitting the frontal lobe. 

The frontal lobe is at the cerebrum, which is makes up the anterior of the brain. The lobes divide into two halves of the cerebral hemisphere. The purpose is to promote reasoning, as well as learning. In addition, it allows us to utilize sensory awareness. Emotions are affected at this region of the brain. Since Alzheimer’s disease can cause severe memory loose, which falters the person’s ability to reason, learn, and use sensory awareness, at the same time faltering emotional response. In short, the frontal lobe creates our personality. 

During the early phase of dementia symptoms may develop, which affect abstract or theoretical thinking, as well as judgment. Dementia may be attacking the limbic system, since this is where recent memories are stored. If a person fails to recall recent details, it can affect judgment, as well as abstract thoughts. 

Once dementia attacks the frontal lobe, it affects motor speech, which may cause the patterns to alter somewhat. The frontal lobe is also, where the motor speech is present; as well, speech is located at the temporal lobe. Once patterns are interrupted the person may slur, or use words out of the ordinary. In addition, dementia affects vision. Vision is noted in the temporal lobe, and the occipital lobe. However, once you slide down the central nervous system below the spinal cord you get to PNS and CNS. The two join to make up the nervous system. PNS alone has more than 10 pairs of nerves, such as the cranial. In addition, PNS makes up another “31” spinal bundles of nerves. The units pair and join the nerves that control the body’s processes. (autonomic) PNS makes up the nervous system, which autonomics is the part that controls involuntary activities, such as reflexes, breathing, glands, heart, digestive system, etc. Glossopharyngeal, hypoglossal nerves, optic, olfactory, etc, make up this area, which dementia may be targeting, since visions are interrupted. 

The root of this channel is dendrites however, which channels down to the central nervous system and onto the parts named, which can change visual fields, or patterns. 

When Alzheimer’s interrupts the mind, it causes changes in the personality, since those with Alzheimer’s will often forget immediately visitors, etc. The person will also experience mood shifts. 

Alzheimer’s disease causes many interruptions. If your loved one is diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease it is wise not to let them alone, or allow them to leave the home on their own. Alzheimer’s disease causes massive memory loss, which the person could wonder off, finding it hard to find his or her way back home. 

