Are You Frightening Your List with Your Emails?

It’s a startling fact that perhaps as much as half the follow up mistakes commonly made are done unwittingly by marketers whose intentions are bright as gold.

One of these mistakes comes from only releasing emails when a big product launch is about to happen.  “She wants more money,” your subscriber-by-default says cynically, before going for the “delete” button with the precision of a missile.

You may not regain Ms. Turned-Off Customer, but you can at least not frighten new ones… by simply making sure you send more follow up emails packed with useful tips and freebies than with expensive offers.  People who get a present most of the time – even if that’s just one highly unique and little-known tip they can use – will be far more likely to open your emails – and far more likely to check out your sporadic (but consistently spaced) offers.

Screaming Headlines

Another mistake that gets emails dumped quicker than any is boring, glib or offensive headlines

You know the boring ones: “Open This Email Before It’s Too Late!”

They’re so formulaic, you’ve seen them a hundred times (and that was just last month). They don’t give you any incentive to open them: There’s no specific bait or lure. (This also covers “glib”.)

As for offensive headlines, try to avoid being too clever:  “Man Eating Monster from Mars Ate My Pants!” Might be entertaining enough to intrigue some people… but if that doesn’t include your target list member, you’ve wasted all that creativity!

People also tend to get offended at the oddest things: For instance, simply using the word “pants” can get you into more hot water than you’d think. And as for profanity, unless your demographic is male, single and under thirty… it’s neither professional nor a good idea.

And before you write “URGENT!” on your “expiring” offer, consider how urgent it actually will seem to an irritated list member who sees it all too often. (People tend to use the same phrases, over and over again.)

If you’re sending a reminder that an offer really will expire shortly, it’s better to be up front about it in your email title:  “Only 3 |Hours Left for my Rabbit Breeding eBook offer.”  Being up front won’t get you any less sales than screaming about something that’s only to you – and it may get you more.

Being Controversial

Writing about the burst boil on your butt may get you an age group way lower than thirty… which is all well and good, if that’s what you’re aiming for.  But if your target market are 50+ knitters, it’s the “delete” button again (and maybe an angry email, that you’ll have to decide if you want to spend time answering). Ranting about politics or ethics may generate some crazy traffic on your blog… but is it going to bring you sales?

And if it garners list members, will they be the paying customers you want?

So take it back a notch, and stop frightening your list with your emails. And if you really must be dramatic and flamboyant – try to make those headlines at least relevant and original.




