768

What Is The Best Online Poker Site?

Origination of Poker

The origination of poker playing is widely disputed. There are various possible birthsites as there are different types of the game. Although, the most popular belief is that poker was an invention by the Chinese at around 900 A.D.

Poker was said to have been derived from the original Chinese dominoes. On New Year's Eve of 969, the Chinese Emperor Mu-tsung is documented to have played a game of "domino cards" with his wife.

Other experts on poker claims that poker originated from a Persian game called "as nas". As Nas is a 5-player Persian game that requires a very special deck of 25 cards with the 5 suits. This game, however, is only recorded far back to the 17th century.

Others say that poker orginated from the French "poque". Poque is a card game that involves bluffs and bets. Around 1480 when the French settled on New Orleans, they played this game. This game uses a deck that consists of spades, diamonds, clubs, and hearts.

-- The Advent of Online Poker

Eons ago, people invented various games that could be identified as the possible game where the poker originated.

Today, people are going crazy with the advent of online poker. Online poker offers many advantages over the traditional casino poker games. The poker craze is spreading to every kind of people not only limited to businessmen or rich men.

-- Possible Best Online Poker Site

One of the poker sites listed below is a possible best online poker site. Beginners need only to check out these website and he may find the best online poker site that he needs to further his knowledge of poker playing.

1. Cardschat.com Poker Forums

This website is a possible best online poker site. The site features a poker and a general card game message board. Players of the poker game can actually view the various forum discussions that transpire on this website.

If you want to check out Cardschat.com Poker Forums, go to www.cardschat.com

2. Learn Texas Hold'em

This website is available for beginners and could be their choice for the best online poker site. In this website, you can find various articles about the rules of hold'em, also about the poker hand rankings, and also the basic and advanced poker strategy. There are also the poker tables on odds and probabilities, tips about poker playing, and a question and answer section about poker.

If you want to check out Learn texas Hold'em, go to www.learn-texas-holdem.com

3. Celebrity Poker Showdown

This website is the official site for Bravo's TV series, complete with video clips and recaps. By its fame alone, it can be considered as the best online poker site.

The website features an interactive Flash video complete with the rules on how to play the Texas Hold'em poker. This features the professional poker player Phil Gordon.

If you want to check out the Celebrity Poker Showdown, go to www.bravotv.com/Celebrity_Poker_Showdown

4. Poker Babes

The website includes profiles of the champion tournament poker players. Players that are women that plays poker, said to be "a man's game."

This could easily be the best online poker site for women. Not only does it provide many information about poker to women desiring to excel in poker, it adds a few perks for the woman players.

If you want to check out Poker Babes, go to www.poker-babes.com

5. Poker Online Guru

This website is a resource for various poker game rules, poker strategies, the history of poker, poker tips, vocabulary, and much more. This website can also be judged by beginners as the best online poker site.

If you want to check out Poker Online Guru, go to www.pokeronlineguru.com

6. Poker News.Com

Another website that could be singled out as the best online poker site is Poker News.Com. The website offers reviews of several poker sites that are unbiased. This website helps to guide users to the tournament poker room that suits them well.

If you want to check out Poker News.Com, go to www.pokernews.com

7. Glossary of Hold'em Poker Terms

This website offers the beginners and novices various poker slang, terms, and definitions for the basic poker play. A contender for the best online poker site award.

If you want to check out this site, go to www.conjelco.com/pokglossary.html

8. Low Limit Omaha Strategy and Tactics

This website provides beginners and novices all the starting poker hands and poker play strategies for the low limit Omaha hi/lo split games.

If you want to check out the Low Limit Omaha Strategy and Tactics, go to www.lowlimitomaha.com