Christian Meditation: Knowing About God's Word and Obeying It


When you hear people say meditation, there is a great chance that you will often think of Buddhist monks humming with their hands on their large beads. You will also imagine bald people in yellow robes reaching enlightenment. You have to consider that meditation isn't only done by bald monks in yellow robes in order to reach enlightenment and know about Buddha's words of wisdom, you have to consider that other religions, such as the Christian religion also practices meditation but in a very different way.

The Christian bible tells Christian followers to think about God's word. You have to consider that what you think about affects the action you take. The mind is a powerful part of your body that can control your mind. So, by thinking about God's words about the great things you have to do in order to benefit other people and help people who can't help themselves, you will be making a good thing on society.

Meditation has a very different meaning in the Christian religion. It doesn’t necessarily mean that you have to shave your head and wear yellow robes, lie down on the floor or squat in order to meditate, meditation in the Christian religion means to think. In Christian meditation, you have to think about the good words that God has commanded people to do. You have to consider that you shouldn’t break the commandments and you have to do good to your fellow human beings in order to go to heaven and have eternal life.

You should consider that meditation isn't just about thinking about Gods word, but you have to consider that you have to focus on it in order to imprint it in your mind and have a guide to live your life free from sin. Christian meditation is very easy to do and not as complex as you might think. All you need to do is pray with your heart and think of the things God have said. There are three times during a day where you can do Christian meditation in order to guide your everyday life. First is just before you sleep in order to make sure that you think of what God's words were as you go to sleep, upon waking up in order to have a guide to start your day, and some time in your day so that you won't forget about God's word.

You don’t have to lie down in order to do Christian meditation. All you need to do is think about God's word wholeheartedly and also accept them as your daily guide in your daily life.

As you can see, you will know what your priorities in life are if you do Christian meditation. All you need is a little time to think about what God has said and in order to satisfy your soul's needs. As you live life like this, you will see that you will be happier and be more satisfied on how you live your life.
