

Diagnosis of Alzheimer 

As a person diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease progresses in his or her condition, symptoms such as psychoses set in. In time, the person will require complete healthcare assistance, since the disease will disable the person permanently. Alzheimer’s will also make it difficult for the person to eat, sleep, speak, and swallow, and so on. The person is at risk of infections, which can cause complete disability. The person at this state is at risk of death and/or coma.

Once a patient is diagnosed with progressive Alzheimer’s disease, it restricts him or her to the point of immobility, at this stage, doctor’s estimate that the patient will not live longer than a few months. Once diagnosed the patient is expected to live a few short years. 

Diagnostics: 
If a patient is suffering dementia symptoms, such as severe memory loss a doctor will consider Alzheimer’s disease. An autopsy unfortunately is the only way that doctor’s can determine if brain tissues and cells are degenerative, yet most times a doctor can note symptoms that make it apparent that Alzheimer’s disease is present. 

Autopsy is the process of using microscopic tools to view the brain. If Alzheimer’s disease is present, the exam will show traces of neurofibrillary tangles, dead nerve cells, plaque senile, and so on. The senile plaques will often enclose amyloid. The examiner is able to see the condition by using microscopic tools, which also helps him or her to see where the amyloid is located. Usually, amyloid moves toward the temporal lobe, which is located in the brain. The temporal lobes are where new memories come alive. 

The lobes within the brain comprise the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, temporal lobe, and the occipital lobe. The frontal lobe is where the personality develops, as well as the intellectual functions. In addition, the frontal lobe is where our motor speech develops.

The temporal lobe enables us to smell, taste, hear, and speak. Since amyloid targets the temporal lobe, we can assume that it also deteriorates the limbic system. The limbic system is where we pull up new memories. We also receive our stimulus that arouses our attention, as well as our responses come from the limbic system. In addition, we receive somewhat of our natural responses in the limbic system to the stimuli. 

Recently experts are challenging new tests that may help them to see if Alzheimer’s underlying elements are present in the brain. The new tests are not in concrete, yet many studies are underway. In the future, we can expect quicker diagnoses, since doctors will not have to wait for autopsies to view the internally brain tissues and cells. 

At present experts, rely on medical histories, which include meds, physical and mental condition, over-the-counter meds taken, etc. Doctors will also review mental stability, which includes assessing the sensory receptors. That is the doctor will ask the patient to recall a time and/or place, as well as check his or her understanding, ability to remember, and his or her way of relying the story. In addition, doctors will check motor skills by issuing memory tests, testing language, coordination, and so forth. 

During testing, the expert will evaluate nutrition, pulse rates, and blood pressure. Balance, sensation, etc are tested as well to verify the condition of the central nervous system’s responses. 

Brain scans are used in some instances, as well as laboratory tests. The tests assist the expert with seeing the cause. Urine and blood tests are frequent. The patient may also be requested to visit a mental health facility. Doctors often require an assessment of emotional or emotive factors, as well as mood condition that may relate to Alzheimer’s disease. 

