Golf Ball


Casual golfers don’t give a lot of thought to choosing the right golf ball.  They think of the golf ball as simply a tool that really isn’t important.  After all, you’re just whacking it around the course, right?  Wrong!  Having the right golf ball can gain you distance in your drives, make it easier to pull off finesse shots, and so much more!

Basically, there are three types of balls:  balata, two-piece, or a combination of both.  Golf balls are constructed with three types of purposes in mind as well:  distance, spin, and control.  Choosing an appropriate golf ball really depends on what you are looking for in your golf game.

Are you a low handicap player looking for great spin and control?  If so, choose a balata golf ball.  This is just a softer ball that has a softer cover and allows for more spin.  This is the ball that most professionals choose.  They are also more expensive than other balls.

Perhaps you have a higher handicap and are looking for more distance and durability.  This is where a good two-piece ball will be best.  This golf ball has a harder cover which creates less backspin allowing you to hit it further.

Some golf balls are designed for slower swing speeds with a lightweight construction that catches air.  They are generally marketed for women or seniors, but plenty of men will play these balls because it gets them extra distance.

Believe it or not the weather you are playing in can make a difference in which golf ball you use.  Course conditions can also dictate golf ball choice.  Let’s say the course has been deluged with rain.  In this case, you will need a ball that will travel father and produces less spin.  If you are playing on a rock hard, sun-scorched track, choose something softer that will land soft and spin.

Look at the temperature as well.  Balls for men come in two compressions – 90 and 100.  When you hit the ball, the ball compresses.  Therefore the 90 compression ball will be softer than the 100.  If it’s cold, the ball will not compress as much so you will want to play a 90 compression golf ball.  If it’s hot out, you will want to opt for the 100 compression.

In general, two piece balls are going to give you more distance and they will be more durable so they will last longer.  Solid core golf balls will offer less trajectory and can spin for better accuracy.  Even the dimples on the ball can have an effect on your game.  Smaller dimples lessen trajectory while larger dimples increase it.

Choosing the right golf ball really is important to playing a good game.  There are many, many choices on the market.  Explore which golf ball you may want to use and then try it out.  Experiment and in time, you’ll find exactly the right golf ball for you.
