Golfers


We are a unique breed of person; we are obsessive; we are passionate; we are golfers.  Golfers are different than other sportspeople because we often take the sport way more seriously than we really should.  But golfers don’t care.  Golfers love the game of golf and we won’t apologize for it.

Golfers constantly monitor the weather and if the temperature is over 50 degrees, we wonder what shape the course is in.  We have The Weather Channel website as number one on our favorites list and check it daily.  The ten day forecast is our friend as we plan out our golfing days based on the weather.

We wear the label of golfers with pride and it is reflected in our clothing, our vehicles, and the items we use to decorate our desks.  Golfers want the world to know that they love golf and they are not ashamed to admit it and put it out there for everyone to see.

The Golf Channel is a necessary part of television for all golfers.  If our cable package doesn’t contain The Golf Channel, we switch cable carriers.  If they charge for The Golf Channel, we gladly shell out whatever price they ask with no questions.

On Saturdays and Sundays during golf season, golfers are watching whatever tournament is on television that week.  That is, after we’ve already played a round or two.  We know that the Masters is one of the most important PGA Tour events, but we also know that it’s just as much fun to watch the Pebble Beach Celebrity Pro-Am as well.

Golfers always know what the new driver is that has been released by Callaway and we often have heated conversations about whether to use a balata ball or a noodle.  Golfers always have golf tees in their pockets and we don’t often take them out before the clothes are washed thus wreaking havoc with our washers and dryers.

Golfers know how Freddie Couples swings through on his chip shot.  We know that Jim Furyk has a great back swing and that John Daly can drive the ball 400 yards pretty consistently.  Golfers can tell you what year Arnold Palmer won his first major and how old Tiger was when he turned pro.

Yes, golfers are a specific breed with their own quirks and personalities.  But golfers are proud of who they are and will never apologize for their obsession with golf.  Golfers know that golf is a way of life – not just something you do.
