Golf Trip


There can’t be anything better for the avid golfer than to take a golf trip someplace other than your home course.  A golf trip is a great way to get out of the norm, see the country, bond with friends, and play golf courses that are more amazing than you ever thought possible.  Of course, if you live within driving distance of some of the better courses, you may not think a golf trip isn’t necessary, but you couldn’t be more wrong.

When you are planning a golf trip, it’s always best to take along a few friends for the ultimate fun golfing vacation.  Your wife (or husband) might not be happy about it, but we guarantee, you’ll have a wonderful time when you have some buddies along for a ride to the ultimate links!

A great place to plan a golf trip to is Alabama.  Robert Trent Jones was a golf architect who designed over 500 golf courses and is known as one of the foremost golf course designers in the world.  In Alabama, they offer the Robert Trent Jones golf trail which consists of 11 different golf courses throughout the state that offer up some of the best golf in the country.

When you travel to play golf on the RTJ golf trail, you will find challenging and fun courses that will provide for hours of enjoyment and camaraderie.  This man was a genius when it came to designing golf courses, so be prepared to be amazed and perhaps a little frustrated.

If you want to travel for golf, you can’t go wrong by going to the home of golf – Scotland.  St. Andrews Golf Club is one of the most beautiful places you can travel to and provides two different courses you can play including “the old one” which is where the game of golf originated.

If you are looking for a real challenge, travel to Georgia for your next golf trip.  Augusta is home to the Augusta National Golf Club which is home to the Master golf tournament.  You will get challenge and beautiful scenery as well as knowing that you are playing on a course where many of the “great ones” have struck their balls.  

A golf trip is a great way to get away on a short vacation while doing what you love – golfing.  When you bring along people who also love golf on your golf trip, you will find that this can be one of the most satisfying vacations you have – or will ever have!
