Art of Visualization and Meditation


There are many types and forms of meditation and many people are now slowly realizing the importance of meditation in their everyday life. Even medical practitioners are now accepting meditation as a way to treat certain health conditions like depression. 

Meditation is considered an art in itself. It takes a lot of practice to master it. If you're really into meditation, then you'd better start mastering visualization's art.

Visualization is used by almost every individual. But this is more evident among children; as people grow older, they use this technique much less. Children are full of wild imaginations. Although you're unaware of it, you're actually using visualization one way or another. What you must do is to know that you're doing it and be more conscious of yourself.

Mediation makes use of visualization very often. In fact, most of the meditation exercises that people are familiar about are all inclusive of visualization. So before concentrating on other complicated meditation exercises, you must first be able to master this specific art.

Some people may think that visualization is easily mastered, well, that might be true. On the other hand, there are also individuals who struggle with it. Visualization grows stronger only if you keep on practicing; and you must always be prepared and concentrated to let all your imaginations go.

If you want to master visualization, you can try this simple exercise. Pick a certain object in your home and clear your table and leave nothing but the object. Look at your chosen object and try to absorb all the specific details. You can try looking hard on the size, color, shape, and the light's shade on it. Then, memorize all details if possible. 

The next step is to shut your eyes and try to picture your chosen object inside your mind. Ask yourself if you remembered all the details, or if you forgot some of them. While doing this, think about your feelings about the exercise. Again, ask yourself if you feel stressed about the exercise or if you're interested. 

Now, clear the object inside your mind. Picture another object found inside your home. Observe and pay close attention to the details. After that, open up your eyes and search the house for that particular object. Was the object the same to that pictured inside your mind? Did you miss out certain details, if so, which one/s? You have to once again ask yourself what you're feeling while doing the exercise.

Now, you have to go back to the table and remember a certain object from your past. Pay close attention to all the details. After doing so, try to put the object in its proper surroundings. 

As you go about the exercise, you might have noticed that there are certain gaps filled in by your imagination. So, can you now tell which of the object's part are real and which ones are not? Or which part came from just your memory?

You were also asked to think about your feelings. If you're a beginner, visualization is quite stressful but don’t worry because this is but normal. Soon enough, the stressful feelings will disappear and you can do visualization exercises with more ease than before. So don’t stop now just because you're having difficulties, just keep on practicing. 



       



