Meditation 101: Pillow, Pillow which is the Softest of Them All 


Customary pillows are usually utilized as head or neck support. Normally, the said pillows are used when sleeping or resting. These days however, pillows are also used to support one’s buttocks and back while seating and meditating. The said pillows are termed as a meditation pillow. 

A pillow is a necessity while doing meditation since it aids you to maintain proper posture all throughout the session. In general, there are two types of pillow suitable for meditation use. 

1.	Donut Pillows – donut is the shape of this type of pillow. The space in the center provides relief while sitting on the tailbone area. 
2.	Lumbar Pillows – this is used to maintain and support the lower back.  

Donut and Lumbar pillows fall under the category of orthopedic pillows that serves its purposes for support and treatment.

Any other pillow may not be appropriate for you and the task you will be undertaking. There are considerations you need to mull over when choosing a meditation pillow. One important pillow factor to consider is the place of meditation.  

Where to Meditate 

The place of meditation is an important consideration when choosing a pillow. You will have to select the appropriate pillow that will be well suited with the place. 

Many practitioners undergo their meditation process on hard surfaces. A floor made of concrete or wood are examples of a hard surface area. A two-stage pillow is apt for this kind of flooring. A firm foam is the usual base of the said pillow while the top is filled in with synthetic materials. 

On the other hand, there are individuals who prefer to meditate on grass or grass-like areas. A gentle pillow that is filled with smooth material is well recommended for grass areas meditation. It is also best to choose a pillow with nylon as its base. Additionally, machine-wash compatible pillow is recommended since such pillow is prone to dirt.  

Other considerations that can be taken into account are: 

What’s In a Pillow? 

There is wide-array of pillow fillers. You must choose a pillow with the appropriate filler to use for meditation. Foam may be hard for you or perhaps feather-fillers may be too supple.

The most common pillow filling are feathers, foam, and synthetically made fillers. 

Pillowcases cover the pillow fills. The choices of pillowcases vary from one person to the other. You need to choose a pillowcase that will not be infuriating. If a green pillowcase adds bothersome to you, why choose green when you can opt for purple or any other color. 

An inappropriate type of pillow can cause uneasiness that will then lead to distraction. Use a pillow that can withstand your weight and most importantly can provide support to your back. If you are slumping on the pillow or you feel yourself moving into the floor, then those are signs that the pillow is badly chosen. Instead of meditation, you might end up accumulating more worries.  

Several pillow manufacturers offer meditation pillow. All you need to do is assess its features for you to decide which will best suit your need. The internet is a good venue for you to scout meditation pillows. 
