Mini Forex Trading: Lesser Stakes, Greater Possibilities 

Forex trading is one of the most viable options for someone who’s looking at bigger possibilities, bigger profit and greater ease in trading and business. Because of it’s high liquidity and speedy transactions, forex trading is becoming a popular game among players in the field of business and marketing. While it’s traditionally for companies and corporations with big capital and experience in the field, it has also proven itself to be a good venture for a neophyte though what one calls a Mini Forex account or mini forex trading. 

Mini Forex Basics 

Mini Forex trading is good for people who have just started in the forex market and with not enough funds to open a regular account. It requires a smaller capital compared to regular forex accounts, a minimum of $300. With mini forex trading, you can control a $10,000 currency position. 

The key here is leverage. Because of leverage, a trader can trade in a commodity more than the money available in his account. Say with a $250 deposit, one could trade a maximum of 5 mini lots. This kind of leverage is greater than stocks or day trading. Of course, it is recommended to start with a manageable leverage that allows greater flexibility in transactions. 

What are the perks of mini forex trading? With just a small stake involved, you get to enjoy free trading platform and benefits that regular forex traders get to enjoy. These would include state-of-the art trading software, charts and resources. With a leverage of 200:1, the trader can trade in a commodity regardless of the amount of money available to him. 

Mini forex trading also allows for lesser losses as the contract size is only 1/10th the size of a standard forex account. There is also greater flexibility with regards to customizing trades and minimizing risks. Ideal for those with smaller capital, the trader has a chance of investing in more areas of the market with lesser risk as there is lesser capital to be lost. He need not be hesitant with his transactions as there is lesser capital involved. 

With the same freedom enjoyed by regular forex traders, a mini forex trader can trade as many lots as he likes. Although the standard trade size is 10,000 units, you are free to trade as much as 50,000 units or more. In this way, the trader also builds up his confidence in his trading skills at the same time slowly increase his profit and trading position in the market. He gets to manage his money before going for the higher stakes in regular forex trading. 

The trader likewise gets to develop a sound trading strategy without getting too emotionally involved in possible losses and profit. For practice, a newbie in forex trading can practice through paper trading. But in the real market, he can start small with mini forex trading. There is lesser capital involved and the practice builds up the trader’s trading gameplan for future explorations in regular, higher stakes forex trading. 

An Example 

On a regular account, a 25-pip stop loss is equal to a loss of $250. Since a mini forex account is just 1/10th of the standard forex account, this is amounting to $25 only. If you trade in units of 10,000, the trader is given more flexibility in terms of customizing his trades and lessening the risks of loss. 


They say that business is for the risk-taker. But if you’re just starting out, it’s wise to be cautious and think about your moves. In the world of foreign trading, mini forex accounts provide the wisest and best option especially for a neophyte. It requires lesser capital, lesser emotional investment, and slowly builds up your skills and confidence as a trader. In a way, it’s a way to prepare the trader for the higher stakes in the more advanced world of foreign trading. 

