When Is A Change In Management Required In Lean Manufacturing?  


The Wikipedia Website defines lean manufacturing as a management issue or philosophy that focuses on the elimination, if not reduction, of the seven wastes.

The so-called seven wastes are identified by labor experts as the factors, both huge and little, that effect or influence the profitability of the given company.

You know that companies spend most of their capital on investments, equipment and work force. The investments are expected to generate revenues, which in turn decide on whether the company will keep afloat.

The seven wastes that companies find as burdens to their production and existence are defeats, motion, inventory, over processing, transportation, waiting time and over production.

The seven wastes

As mentioned, the seven wastes are the usual factors that are blamed for the losses and demise of modern-day companies. The seven wastes, as you might have noticed, are somehow directly linked to the companies’ working culture and environment.

Over production make up for filing of inventories, which is not necessary and negatively related to production because as supplies increase, prices do fall or decrease, as stated in the law of supply and demand.

Over processing and slow motion result in longer wasting time, which makes companies unproductive. Motion of personnel is disturbed and made slower when there lots of equipments not used in the workplace that obviously make free movement hard.

You know that when people can move freely, they can get to do more activities and accomplish more tasks.

Defects and scraps in outputs can be prevented along with all the wastes. The seven wastes also involve and cover behavioral patterns of employees, which can negatively affect the overall being of the company.

Lean manufacturing advantages

There are numerous advantages and benefits enumerated from the implementation of lean manufacturing principles.

For one, savings are consequently generated, and revenues and incomes are rapidly and effectively improved. Savings will mean a lot to a company because capital is so hard to raise nowadays and operation factors and inputs are becoming more and more expensive.

Competition nowadays has also gone so intense that all companies, whether from different industries or not, are practically up against each others’ sleeves. Competitiveness is another aspect of the companies that lean manufacturing aims to cover.

To help cope up with the intense rivalry and competition among companies, lean manufacturing aims to boost production and quality credibility. These two factors are very essential when it comes to improving sales through active and good relations with customers and consumers.

The management and lean manufacturing

So one important question involving the adoption of lean manufacturing techniques is, “ when is management revamped or changed resulting from the implementation of lean manufacturing techniques?

The answer to the question can somehow get hard and complex. To seek answers for the above mentioned interrogative statement would also be equally complicated and will require too thorough probing and searching.

Lean manufacturing principally aims to rationalize and streamline operations of companies. Experts argue that the process does not necessarily require a change in management.

But it can be noted that the distinct features of almost all companies under lean manufacturing initiatives are the change and revamp in management. The subject is the main cause of stress nowadays among executives and directors.

It can be safe and logical to assert, however, that because lean manufacturing entails the elimination of wasteful practices and behaviors in the workplace that some executives are axed. It can be ironic that several board seats and top posts are onlygreat wastes of capital and compensation packages.

Lean manufacturing advisor recommend a change in management to most effectively make the adoption of lean manufacturing principles really work.
