The Theory Of Constraints And Lean Manufacturing

The theory of constraints and lean manufacturing are two of the most famous business beliefs that have made an impact to the business industry for years. 

Though both popular in the business field, the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing are both similar in some aspects as they are in complete conflict in other views. 

Listed below are some of the strengths of the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing:

1.The theory of constraints provides focus to the student in a world of information overload.

2.The theory of constraints provides its practitioners an opportunity to improve their organization by limiting their focus on very few issues which are the seen constraints to ongoing profitability.

3.The lean manufacturing on the other hand became famous after being derived from the system of the successful Japanese automobile maker Toyota. The lean manufacturing approach teaches that to improve the organization, a practitioner must focus on the elimination of any or all waste.

Listed below are some of the similarities of both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing: 

1.As is evident, the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing both focus on the improvement and advocate techniques to control the process flow of a material on the manufacturing shop floor.

2.The theory of constraints and lean manufacturing have both demonstrated impact results of implementations. That is, profitability skyrockets, as well as inventories and lead times are slashed and the operations are drastically simplified in both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing.

3.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing recognize that the perspective of the change agent must not be limited to the manufacturing part of the business but must echo throughout the rest of the company. This is in order to gain and maintain the improvement trends that both theory of constraints and lean manufacturing are focused on.

4.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing are able to expand their scope in order to cover principles and practices of the entire business system. This will enable a continuous system-wide improvement for both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing.

5.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing embrace the concept of value. Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing are two philosophies that agree that value is defined by the end customer.

6.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing have an acknowledgement that the customer value is created by a chain of interdependencies that pushes far beyond the walls of manufacturing. 

7.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing also acknowledges that the work goal of every person in the business organization is to turn the inventory into throughput.

8.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing observe defining the system and understanding the actual process flow as an early step.

9.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing advocate the concept of the importance of flow.

10.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing embraces the Pull principle while also offering methods of control to the flow of product that are based from the Pull principle from the market.

11.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing agree that the business organization is focused on pursuing ongoing improvement. Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing agree that it is an endless pursuit of perfection. 

12.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing are also recognizing the importance of the workforce in participating in improving systems. It is noted by both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing that it is the ownership of ideas together with the demonstrated results that ignites the flame of continuous improvement.

Listed below are the main difference between the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing:

1.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing differ in how they focus their energies. The theory of constraints focuses on the notion to improve the system beginning with the current state of the system. The lean manufacturing, however, is bent on eliminating or reducing waste.

2.Both the theory of constraints and lean manufacturing differ in how the boundaries are defined in the value stream itself. The theory of constraints focuses on resources that are shared across value streams while lean manufacturing organizes itself around specific products. 	 	  	
   

